---
title: "Challenges in the use of atomistic simulations to predict solubilities of drug-like molecules"
collection: publications
permalink: /publication/2019-IDAC
excerpt: 'Infinite dilution activity coefficients (IDACs) express the degree of non-ideality a solution has in infinitely dilute conditions and are important parameters for chemical plant design. This paper uses solvation free energy calculations to estimate IDACs and show that they are good alternatives to solvation free energies as validation tools in Computational Chemistry.'
date: 2019-05-14
venue: 'Journal of Chemical Theory and Computation'
paperurl: 'http://gduarter.github.io/files/2019-IDAC.pdf'
citation: 'G. Duarte Ramos Matos et al. (2019). &quot;Infinite Dilution Activity Coefficients as Constraints for Force Field Parametrization and Method Development.&quot; <i>J. Chem. Theory Comput.</i>. 15 (5), 3066-3074.'
---
__Abstract__:
Molecular simulations begin with an underlying
energy model or force field and from this can predict diverse
physical properties. However, force fields were often
developed with relatively limited data sets, yet accuracy for
diverse properties across a broad chemical space is desirable;
therefore, tests of such accuracy are particularly important.
Here, to this end, we calculated 237 infinite dilution activity
coefficients (IDACs), comparing with experimental values
from NIST’s ThermoML database. We found that calculated
IDAC values correlate strongly with experiment (Pearson R of
0.92 $\pm$ 0.01) and allow us to identify specific functional groups
 that appear to present challenges to the force field employed.
One potentially valuable aspect of IDACs, as compared to solvation
 free energies, which have been frequently employed as force
field tests, is that the same molecules serve both as solutes and 
solvents in different cases, allowing us to ensure that force fields
are not overly tuned to one particular environment or solvent.


[Download paper here](http://gduarter.github.io/files/2019-IDAC.pdf)

Recommended citation: G. Duarte Ramos Matos, et al. (2019). "Infinite Dilution Activity Coefficients as Constraints for Force Field Parametrization and Method Development"; <i>J. Chem. Theory Comput.</i>. 15 (5), 3066-3074.
