---
title: "Descriptor-Driven de Novo Design Algorithms for DOCK6 Using RDKit"
collection: publications
permalink: /publication/2023-D3N
excerpt: 'The primary objective of the present study is three-fold: (1)
implement and validate a robust interface enabling DOCK6 to
communicate with the open-source cheminformatics package
RDKit,22 (2) confirm that the use of DOCK_D3N protocols
leads to ligand ensembles that conform to the desired target
values for the descriptors under different conditions and
environments, and (3) examine ligand growth behavior using
very narrow ranges for descriptors derived from clinically
relevant compounds.'
date: 2023-09-12
venue: 'Journal of Chemical Information and Modeling'
paperurl: 'http://gduarter.github.io/files/2023-D3N.pdf'
citation: 'G. Duarte Ramos Matos, S. Pak, R. C. Rizzo (2023). &quot;Descriptor-Driven de Novo Design Algorithms for DOCK6 Using RDKit.&quot; <i>J. Chem. Inf. Model.</i>. 63, 5803-5822.'
---
__Abstract__:
Structure-based methods that employ principles of de novo design can be used to construct small organic molecules
from scratch using pre-existing fragment libraries to sample chemical space and are an important class of computational algorithms
for drug-lead discovery. Here, we present a powerful new design method for DOCK6 that employs a Descriptor-Driven De Novo
strategy (termed D3N) in which user-defined cheminformatics descriptors (and their target ranges) are calculated at each layer of
growth using the open-source toolkit RDKit. The objective is to tailor ligand growth toward desirable regions of chemical space. The
approach was extensively validated through: (1) comparison of cheminformatics descriptors computed using the new DOCK6/
RDKit interface versus the standard Python/RDKit installation, (2) examination of descriptor distributions generated using D3N
growth under different conditions (target ranges and environments), and (3) construction of ligands with very tight (pinpoint)
descriptor ranges using clinically relevant compounds as a reference. Our testing confirms that the new DOCK6/RDKit integration
is robust, showcases how the new D3N routines can be used to direct sampling around user-defined chemical spaces, and highlights
the utility of on-the-fly descriptor calculations for ligand design to important drug targets


[Download paper here](http://gduarter.github.io/files/2023-D3N.pdf)

Recommended citation: G. Duarte Ramos Matos, S. Pak, R. C. Rizzo (2023). "Descriptor-Driven de Novo Design Algorithms for DOCK6 Using RDKit." <i>J. Chem. Inf. Model.</i>. 63, 5803-582
